# Author Justin Loh

Project Atmos’ main directive is to provide it’s users with a comfortable,
virtual space to socialize with friends or other Atmos users. This will be
delivered in the form of musical, themed channels called ‘Spheres’, each with
customizable animated backgrounds and music playlist.

A sphere represents a dedicated venue for a group of Atmos users to socialize
in, either via the integrated text chat, voice chat, or video chat channel in a
similar manner to widely used video chatting applications such as discord or
zoom. Each sphere features a customizable animated background, which can be
selected from the default backgrounds, which is a wide plethora of suggested
high-definition backgrounds (e.g., A livestream of Niagara Falls, fishy
aquariums, fireplace, snowy mountains, mystical forest, coffee shop, etc.), and
additional backgrounds added regularly by the dev team. Backgrounds can also be
custom made with the user’s video of choice (provided either by file upload, or
a link to a video such as a YouTube link) using the in-application video editor,
offering basic video editing functions and certain video customization features
such as adding different ambient filters or borders, allowing the user to
produce a looping animated background to suit their desires.

A sphere can be interconnected with a series of different spheres, allowing
spheres of simmilar / relevant themes to exist in close proximity to each other.
Relevant or nearby spheres can appear in as recommedations when in a user sphere,
and are availanle to be visited easily in a graph-node style navigation.

If a user does not wish to go through the process of customizing a sphere and
only wishes to quickly create a session, a “Quick Start” feature will enable a
user to generate a randomized sphere with relevant music genres and themes,
needing the user to only input a music genre of their choice.

In terms of music, full Spotify integration and syncing will also be available
in the Atmos applications, allowing users to select a playlist of their choice
from the Spotify platform which already hosts a multitude of music tracks of
varying genres. However, additional audio effects and filters may be applied in
the Sphere audio settings, adding certain effects such as dampening, echoing,
muffling or even integration with other audio effects (e.g., adding a raining
ambient soundtrack to sad music can create a melancholic atmosphere).

Furthermore, instead of operating as individual sessions for private groups, a
life cycle of a Sphere can be extended as dedicated spheres can be maintained
indefinitely for public joining and use, similar to live stream music channels
on YouTube. Dedicated spheres operate similarly to services such as radio
stations, and are public for all users to join. Owners/Administrators of a
dedicated Sphere may offer a range of content in addition to music streaming,
such as news broadcasting (e.g., the CBC news sphere would be available to the
public to join and view live news being reported), podcasts, or live
performances and concerts, providing the application a secondary function
similar to that of a social media platform.
