# Author Justin Loh

Project Atmos’ main directive is to provide it’s users with a comfortable, virtual space to socialize with friends or other Atmos users. This will be delivered in the form of musical, themed channels called ‘Spheres’, each with customizable animated backgrounds and music playlist.

A sphere represents a dedicated venue for a group of Atmos users to socialize in, either via the integrated text chat, voice chat, or video chat channel in a similar manner to widely used video chatting applications such as discord or zoom. Each sphere features a customizable animated background, which can be selected from the default backgrounds, which is a wide plethora of suggested high-definition backgrounds (e.g., A livestream of Niagara Falls, fishy aquariums, fireplace, snowy mountains, mystical forest, coffee shop, etc.), and additional backgrounds added regularly by the dev team. Backgrounds can also be custom made with the user’s video of choice (provided either by file upload, or a link to a video such as a YouTube link) using the in-application video editor, offering basic video editing functions and certain video customization features such as adding different ambient filters or borders, allowing the user to produce a looping animated background to suit their desires.

If a user does not wish to go through the process of customizing a sphere and only wishes to quickly create a session, a “Quick Start” feature will enable a user to generate a randomized sphere with relevant music genres and themes, needing the user to only input a music genre of their choice.

In terms of music, full Spotify integration and syncing will also be available in the Atmos applications, allowing users to select a playlist of their choice from the Spotify platform which already hosts a multitude of music tracks of varying genres. However, additional audio effects and filters may be applied in the Sphere audio settings, adding certain effects such as dampening, echoing, muffling or even integration with other audio effects (e.g., adding a raining ambient soundtrack to sad music can create a melancholic atmosphere).

Furthermore, instead of operating as individual sessions for private groups, a life cycle of a Sphere can be extended as dedicated spheres can be maintained indefinitely for public joining and use, similar to live stream music channels on YouTube. Dedicated spheres operate similarly to services such as radio stations, and are public for all users to join. Owners/Administrators of a dedicated Sphere may offer a range of content in addition to music streaming, such as news broadcasting (e.g., the CBC news sphere would be available to the public to join and view live news being reported), podcasts, or live performances and concerts, providing the application a secondary function similar to that of a social media platform.
