## Biggest Risks

### Risk 1: Copyright Strikes

One of the primary features of ATMOS is that it is supposed to be a location to
chill and play music. An obvious risk that will arise with this is that if users
can choose what songs they would like in their sphere, they might choose
copyrighted music and backgrounds if they are to choose external music which are
not featured on the spotify platform. This isn't necessarily bad since spheres
aren't monetized, but corporations will still want money for letting people
listen to their music or use their content as backgrounds. There will need to be
ads added somewhere for when copyrighted songs/backgrounds play to appease to
the big corporations. This might be harder to handle for when video chat is
implemented since that will add more legality issues when people start streaming
movies.

### Risk 2: Explicit Content

There is a risk that malicious users may pose a threat which can ruin the
experience for other users through inappropriate content. An example of this
maybe be if spheres with content not suitable of children are created. ATMOS
will need clear rules in the terms and conditions stating that either the site
cannot be used for this 18+ content or if explicit content is allowed, then
there will need to be rules on what is acceptable and the restrictions required
to ensure users under the age of 18 do not see this explicit content. Regardless
of which of the 2 rules are chosen, extreme explicit content like real life
blood, gore, and death, as well as illegal pornography like child porn will be
banned and handled with harsher consequences.

### Risk 3: Distribution of Illegal Content

Connecting with the past 2 risks listen above, other illegal content can cause
risks to ATMOS. This includes:

- Distribution of pirated games, movies, and other medias or the use of pirated
  media on any sphere.
- Distribution of content that is illegal according to Canadian and
  International Laws or the use of this content on any sphere.
- Distribution of illegal hacking software such as trojans, malware, or other
  viruses that are cybercrimes.

### Risk 4: Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) Attacks

There might be a possibility that someone might want to take down the ATMOS
servers by causing DDoS attacks. This can be devastating and will need to be
handled as soon as possible when it happens since it will cause enough network
trafficking that it'd be impossible for users to use ATMOS.