# Theoretical contribution: 

We want to address this issue because people around the world are forced to 
isolate themselves which could lead to negative effects such as depression, bad 
sleep quality, increase chances of premature death, etc. [1] The opportunity is to
make a virtual environment people come to relax and interact with others. According 
to Graeme B.Wilson, music (or background music) can affect social behavior such as 
interactions among people.[2]  People feel more comfortable having interactions with 
each other  when they are put in an environment that they are comfortable in. Having 
a good background noise allows better synchronizations between conversations mainly 
because it boosts their self-confidence. Environment plays a big role when it comes 
to emotions, people tend to more relaxed, be less shy and more expressive when they 
are placed in a desired environment. Most individual tend to relieve stress when 
listening to music.[3] One of the major drawback of the existing applications is that 
they don’t incorporate all the features combined. The goal is to build a virtual 
environment that allows people to enjoy chill music and different type of animated 
background as well as interact with others.

In terms of design, the visual aspect is going to look a little similar to the 
Discord where all the spheres are visible on the left-hand side. Once a sphere is 
selected, the user is propelled into a new environment. This new environment includes 
a dynamic background animation as well as a background music from a preselected theme.
The UI is kept minimalist on purpose,so the user enjoy the ambiance and a chat option 
is available if the user needs to interact. So the background music and animation are 
the main component of our UI design. 



[1] Novotney, A. (2019, May). The risks of social isolation. Retrieved March 31, 2021, 
    from https://www.apa.org/monitor/2019/05/ce-corner-isolation

[2] Wilson, G., &amp; MacDonald, R. (2019, June 28). The social impact of musical 
    engagement for young adults with learning difficulties: A qualitative study. 
    Retrieved April 01, 2021,from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6610152/
   
[3]Thoma, M., La Marca, R., Brönnimann, R., Finkel, L., Ehlert, U., &amp; Nater, U. 
   (2013, August 5). The effect of music on the human stress response. Retrieved April 
   01, 2021, from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3734071/
